Mario Pugh		September 1, 2020

This article is about Networking and learning how computer networks work, the architecture used and how to keep them secure. Computer networks are composed of two or more computers that are connected. You can define a network by its protocols, their physical arrangement of components, how it controls traffic and its purpose. The different types of Networks are:
Computer network types
As networking needs evolved, so did the computer network types that serve those needs. Here are the most common and widely used computer network types:
LAN (local area network): A LAN connects computers over a relatively short distance, allowing them to share data, files, and resources. For example, a LAN may connect all the computers in an office building, school, or hospital. Typically, LANs are privately owned and managed.
WLAN (wireless local area network): A WLAN is just like a LAN but connections between devices on the network are made wirelessly.
WAN (wide area network): As the name implies, a WAN connects computers over a wide area, such as from region to region or even continent to continent. The internet is the largest WAN, connecting billions of computers worldwide. You will typically see collective or distributed ownership models for WAN management.
MAN (metropolitan area network): MANs are typically larger than LANs but smaller than WANs. Cities and government entities typically own and manage MANs.
PAN (personal area network): A PAN serves one person. For example, if you have an iPhone and a Mac, it’s very likely you’ve set up a PAN that shares and syncs content—text messages, emails, photos, and more—across both devices.
SAN (storage area network): A SAN is a specialized network that provides access to block-level storage—shared network or cloud storage that, to the user, looks and works like a storage drive that’s physically attached to a computer. For more information on how a SAN works with block storage, see our video "Block Storage vs. File Storage" and "Block Storage: A Complete Guide."
CAN (campus area network): A CAN is also known as a corporate area network. A CAN is larger than a LAN but smaller than a WAN. CANs serve sites such as colleges, universities, and business campuses.
VPN (virtual private network): A VPN is a secure, point-to-point connection between two network end points (see ‘Nodes’ below). A VPN establishes an encrypted channel that keeps a user’s identity and access credentials, as well as any data transferred, inaccessible to hackers.
Network topologies are bus, ring, star and mesh. Load balancers and networks distribute tasks, workloads, and network traffic.


Reference: 
https://www.ibm.com/cloud/learn/networking-a-complete-guide
